# ObjectBouncer

ObjectBouncer provides a way to restrict access to an objects properties or
methods based upon a series of preconditions.

## Usage

Let's say we have a President who needs protection:

    class President
      def shake_hands
        "shaking hands"
      end

      def high_five
        "high five!"
      end

      def give(gift)
        "thanks"
      end
    end

And the following people:

    class Nutjob
      def dictator?
        true
      end
    end

    class VicePresident
      def democrat?
        true
      end

      def friend?(other)
        other.class == President
      end
    end

    class Hippie
      def democrat?
        true
      end
    end

To protect the President we'd add the following to our class definition:

    class President
      include ObjectBouncer::Doorman
      door_policy do
        deny :shake_hands,  :if => Proc.new{|person| person.dictator? }
        allow :shake_hands, :if => Proc.new{|person| person.democrat? }
        deny :high_five,    :unless => Proc.new{|person, president|
                                      person.friend?(president) }
        deny :give,         :unless => Proc.new{|person, president, *args|
                                      args.first == :donation }
      end
    end

And now, to put our security detail in place we need to specify the current
user that is initiating the interaction:

    @obama       = President.new
    @gaddafi     = Nutjob.new
    @joe_biden   = VicePresident.new
    @tommy_chong = Hippie.new

    @obama.current_user = @gaddafi
    @obama.shake_hands                # Raises PermissionDenied
    @obama.give(:donation)            # Allowed
    @obama.give(:suspect_package)     # Raises PermissionDenied

    @obama.current_user = @joe_biden
    @obama.shake_hands                # Allowed
    @obama.high_five                  # Allowed

    @obama.current_user = @tommy_chong
    @obama.shake_hands                # Allowed
    @obama.high_five                  # Raises PermissionDenied

Alternatively, if you can specify the user when you instantiate the object:

    @gaddafi     = Nutjob.new
    @obama       = President.as(@gaddafi).new

    @obama.shake_hands                # Raises PermissionDenied
    @obama.give(:donation)            # Allowed
    @obama.give(:suspect_package)     # Raises PermissionDenied

Handy in things like application controllers where you want to pass in the
currently logged in user.

## Why would I want to use this?

Most of the existing RBAC and other access based permission systems are
implemented at a controller or action level within the MVC stack. ObjectBouncer
allows you to provide more granular control my limiting access to discrete
methods on an instance of an object, while keeping the permissions logic
external to the methods themselves.

## Compatibility

Test suite has currently only been confirmed on the following platforms:

 * MRI Ruby 1.9.2

## Contributions

Patches gladly accepted. Please fork this repo, add a relevant test, and send
me a pull request. Kudos to the following for design, advice, input, etc.:

 * Pedro Belo
 * Ryan Smith
 * Graham Ashton

## Status

Currently still under active development and considered alpha, the API is
liable to change without notice.

## License

ObjectBouncer is released under the MIT license.

Copyright (c) 2011 Glenn Gillen

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.
ObjectBouncer
